# Hand tracking and interaction by computer vi­sion for patients rehabilitationMaster ThesisDTU ComputeDepartment of Applied Mathematics and Computer Science

With the development of artificial intelligence, highly accurate and real-time human tracking on mobile devices has become possible. Hand and body dexterity can be affected by stroke, but there is no affordable and convenient method to provide a long-term quantitative approach to track body dexterity.

In this thesis, we use a MediaPipe model trained by deep learning to achieve real-time, distance invariant tracking of hand and arm body landmarks. The purpose is to explore if mobile devices are feasible for at-home monitoring of patients during rehabilitation. First, by allowing the user's hand to do peak-valley movements (e.i., opening and closing the hand in front of the camera), the landmark of the hand is collected using landmark-based registration. Then, a long-term change in hand dexterity that a patient may experience during rehabilitation, is simulated by using of a number of rubber bands with different degrees of kinetic constraints. The changes in hand mobility are evaluated by comparing and analyzing the change in the hand area visible to the camera and the movement speed of the fingers. Second, in a mirror hand test, the motion data of the left hand and right hand are compared. Third, MeidaPipe landmarks of arm movements are analyzed to test if they could potentially allow monitoring changes in arm strength over time. The changes are simulated by using of different dumbbell weights. 

The rubber band test found that it was possible to measure the difference in hand dexterity. With the use of more than two rubber bands, the hand peak area and speed will decrease with the increase of rubber bands, the test results are able to fulfill two-sample t-test, $p-value < 0.05$. The mirror hand test indicated that under the condition of equal external force limitation in the left and right hand comparison experiment, there is a significant difference between the dexterity of the two hands in hand peak area and speed. The dumbbell arm test suggested that the MediaPipe Pose model is able to detect differences between arm muscle strengths by detecting movement speed, but requires external force limitations to reach a specific level.

Finally, this thesis reflects on how mobile devices may provide input to a digital patient twin by offering a convenient, remote quantification of patients' physical dexterity for clinical professionals, and a user-friendly method for stroke patients to record the progress of their rehabilitation with their own phones or tablets.

All original code are kept in this place. Feel free contact me, if someone insterest about this topic.
